1. MapShaper

	Methods

	a. Douglas-Peucker simplification (a.k.a. Ramer-Douglas-Peucker). Simplified lines remain within a specified distance 
	of original lines. Good for thinning dense vertices but tends to form spikes at high simplification.

	b. Visvalingam simplification. Polylines are simplified by iteratively removing the point that forms the least-area 
	triangle with two adjacent points.

	c. A modified version of Visvalingam simplification. Points located at the vertex of more acute angles are preferentially 
	removed, for a smoother appearance. This is mapshaper's default simplification method. RECOMMENDED FOR MAPPING 

	Parameters
	
	Proportion of removable points to retain. Accepts values from 0 (maximum simplification) to 1 (no simplification).
	
	Formats
	
	GeoJSON, Shapefile, TopoJSON (auto-snap doesn't work)
	
	Options
	
	repair intersections - Remove line intersections. Works by rolling back simplification along intersecting segments.
	
	auto-snap - Automatically fix minor topology errors by snapping together points that are almost identical. Doesn't
				apply to TopoJSON files.
	
	prevent shape - Prevent small polygons from disappearing at high simplification. Protects the largest ring of multi-
					ring features.
					
2. TopoJSON

	Methods 
	
	Visvalingam’s algorithm 
	
	Parameters
	
	Minimal area threshold - the area is measured in steradians for spherical coordinates, or local square units when used 
	with --cartesian. 
	
	Retain proportion - specify the fraction of coordinates (roughly corresponding to output file size) to retain. Use the 
	latter if it is convenient, but specifying an explicit area threshold may be safer assuming you know the output resolution 
	of the map you are going to display. The min. area threshold should be less than the per-pixel area of your map to avoid
	visual artifacts. 
	
	Formats
	
	GeoJSON
	TopoJSON
	ESRI shapefile
	comma-separated values (CSV)
	tab-separated values (TSV)
	
3. OGR

	Methods
	
	Douglas-Peucker algorithm
	
	Parameters
	
	Distance tolerance for the simplification. All vertices in the simplified geometry will be within this 
	distance of the original geometry.
	
	Formats
	
	GeoJSON
	Shapefile
	